1 
Bylaws 
 of WISE, Columbia, Inc.  
A Missouri Nonprofit Corporation  
 
             
 
ARTICLE ONE – INTRODUCTION 
 
Definition of Bylaws  
1.01.These Bylaws constitute the code of rules adopted by WISE, Columbia, Inc. (hereinafter 
the “Corporation”) for the regulation and management of its affairs.  
 
 Purposes and Powers  
1.02 This Corporation will have the purposes or powers as may be stated  in its Articles of 
Incorporation, and such powers as are now or may be granted hereafter by law. The primary 
purpose of this Corporation is to operate exclusively for one or more purposes as specified in 
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, inc luding, for such purposes, the making of 
distributions to organizations that qualify as exempt organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the 
Internal Revenue Code.  
 
1.03 Specific Aims of WISE, Columbia 
 
1: Spread the awareness and importance of Value based Spiritual Education. 
2: Holistic and sustainable farming projects including Horticulture and Dairy. 
3: To systematically propagate spiritual knowledge to the society at large and to educate all the 
people in the techniques of spiritual life in order to ch eck the imbalance of values in life and to 
achieve real unity and peace. 
4. To bring the members closer together for the purpose of living a simpler and more natural way 
of life. 
 
ARTICLE TWO - OFFICES AND AGENCY 
 
 Principal and Branch Offices 
2.01. The pr incipal place of business of this Corporation will be in Missouri. In addition, the 
Corporation may maintain other offices either within or without the State of Missouri as its 
business requires.  
 
Location of Registered Office 
2.02. The location of the initial registered office of this Corporation will be in Missouri. Such office 
will be continuously maintained in the State of Missouri for the life of this Corporation. The Board 
of Directors may from time to time change the address of its registered office  by duly adopted 
resolution and filing the appropriate statement with the Secretary of State.  
 
ARTICLE THREE – MEMBERSHIP 
2 
 
Membership 
3.01. The founding member(s) of this Corporation shall be (hereinafter “the Membership”), or any 
successor thereto. 
3.02. The Membership may invite additional members upon the unanimous decision of all 
members.  
3.03. In the event of the incapacitation, death, or resignation of a member of The Membership, 
their membership interest may be assigned by that member to one successor.  
3.04. Decisions of the Membership are made by the founding members. 
 
Rights, Powers, and Privileges 
 
3.05 In addition to such other rights, powers, and privileges as it may have by law, the 
Corporation's Membership, shall have the following rights, powers, and privileges: 
 
(1)To accept or reject any vote, decision or recommendation by the Board of Directors, including 
but not limited to the Annual Budget of the Corporation. 
 
(2)To approve, upon the recommendation of the Board of Directors, any ne cessary agreements 
to carry out its purposes under the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws including the sale of 
disposition of any assets of the Corporation not in the usual course of business and the incurring 
of any indebtedness for borrowed money; 
 
(3)To remove any officer or member of the Board of Directors at any time, regardless of the term 
for which such member may have been elected;  
 
(4)To appoint all Board of Directors. The member shall adopt resolutions electing Board of 
Directors of the Corporation at the annual meeting of its Board of Directors; 
 
(5)To amend the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws of the Corporation as provided in these 
Bylaws; and 
 
(6) To vote upon all matters on which members are entitled to vote. 
 
(7)To receive reasonable compensation, compensation may be paid only for bona fide services, 
and should be approved via a disinterested decision-making process consistent with a conflict-of-
interest policy. 
 
3.06. These rights are subject to WISE, Columbia, Inc.’s Conflict of Interest Policy.  
 
Dismissal of The Membership  
3.07. A member of the Membership cannot be removed by the Board of Directors unless the 
member is deemed not to adhere to the article 7 of the bylaws or by a court of competent  
jurisdiction to be mentally or physically incompetent to perform or upon the occurrence of a “Bad 
3 
Act.” A “Bad Act” means the Member has, pursuant to a final non -appealable court adjudication, 
been found to have committed (i) a material breach of its duti es hereunder or (ii) fraud, gross 
negligence or willful misconduct and shall be required to provide restitution to the Corporation of 
any and all losses sustained by the Corporation.  
 
ARTICLE FOUR – GENERAL MEMBERS 
 
 General Members  
 
4.01 The Corporation may choose to accept applications for General Members (hereinafter 
“General Members”) into the Corporation. General Members shall not have the same rights and 
privileges as the Membership. Instead, the rights and privileges of General Members shall be 
governed by the board-approved General Members Policies not stated herein. 
 
 ARTICLE FIVE – DIRECTORS  
 
Definition of Board of Directors  
 
5.01. The Board of Directors is that group of persons vested with the management of the business 
and affairs of this Corporation subject to the law, the Articles of Incorporation, and these Bylaws. 
Board expectations are primarily in governance terms (meeting attendance, fiduciary oversight, 
strategic and financial stewardship). 
 
Qualifications of Directors  
5.02. The qualifications for becoming and remaining a Director of this Corporation are as follows:  
(1) Directors need not be residents of the State of Missouri. 
 (2) Directors must be of age of more than 21years. 
 
Number of Directors 
 5.03. The number of Directors of this Corporation will not be less than five(5) at any time.  
 
Terms of Directors  
5.04.  
(1) The Directors constituting the first Board of Directors as named in the Articles of Incorporation 
will hold office until the first annual election of Directors. Thereafter, Directors will  serve for a term 
of two (2) year(s). Each Director will hold office for the term for which selected and until a 
successor has been elected and qualified. After the first election of the directors each Director will 
hold office for the term for which elected and until a successor has been appointed.  
 
 (2) A Director may be removed from office when such action will serve the best interests of this 
Corporation in the manner prescribed in the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws for the 
appointment of Directors. Such removal will be without prejudice  to any contract rights of the 
Director so removed.  
 
4 
Vacancies on the Board 
5.05. Resignation of Directors will become effective immediately or on the date specified therein, 
and vacancies will be deemed to exist as of such effective date. Any vacancy occ urring on the 
Board of Directors, and any directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of 
Directors, will be filled by appointment by the Membership. The new Director appointed to fill the 
vacancy will serve for the unexpired term of the predecessor in office.  
 
Election of the Board of Directors 
5.06. Every 2 years there will be an election for the Board members. 
 
Honorary Board of Directors 
5.07. After the term of 2 years is completed, board of directors member may continue to serve on 
the board for another term. The organization values the contribution of the board members and 
will welcome the previous board member to serve on the board. It is  discretion of the board 
member, they may stay or resign from their post. In a situation, whe n board members decide to 
resign, they may continue to serve as honorary members as coaches for the newly elected board 
members. They will have an advisory role with no governance authority unless also 
directors/officers. 
 
Board of Directors Attendance 
5.08 Board members should be contributing to the organization and attending the meetings with 
at least 70 percent attendance in the board meetings. Board members are expected not to miss 
more than three (3) consecutive meetings in a row unless otherwise clear ly stated due to some 
valid reason.  
 
Place of Directors' Meetings 
5.09. Meetings of the Board of Directors on a regular basis will be held via virtual platform: either 
Zoom/Teams with prior notice in advance to the board members. Special meetings will be held at 
the registered office of this Corporation or any place or places within or without the state as the 
Board of Directors may designate by resolution duly adopted.  
 
Regular Directors' Meetings 
5.09. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors will be held and the timing of such meetings will 
be at the discretion of the board. This provision of the Bylaws constitutes notice to all Directors of 
regular meetings for all years and instances, and no further notice shall be required although such 
notice may be given. 
 
 Notice of Special Directors' Meetings 
5.10. Written or printed notice stating the place, day, and hour of any special meeting of the Board 
of Directors will be delivered to each Director not less than two nor more than  seven business 
days before the date of the meeting, either personally, electronically via email so long as the 
Director has agreed to the electronically transmitted notice, or by first class mail, by or at the 
direction of the President, or the Secretary, or the Directors calling  the meeting. If mailed, such 
notice will be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail [by registered or 
5 
certified mail] addressed to the Director at his or her address as it appears on the records of this 
Corporation, with postage prepaid. Such notice need not state the business to be transacted at, 
nor the purpose of, such meeting.  
 
Call of Special Board Meetings  
5.11. A special meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by either: 
 (1) The President. 
 (2) The Executive Committee. 
 (3) The Membership 
 
 Waiver of Notice 
5.12. Attendance of a Director at any meeting of the Board of Directors will constitute a waiver of 
notice of such meeting, except where such Director attends a meeting for the express purpose of 
objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting 
is not lawfully called or convened. 
 
Quorum of Directors  
5.13. Three (3) of the whole Board of Directors will constitute a quorum. The act of a majority of 
the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present will be the act of the Board of 
Directors, unless a greater number is required under the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, 
or any provision of these Bylaws.  
 
5.14. Decisions made by the Board of Directors shall be considered as an approval so long as 
the meetings consist of a quorum of the Board of Directors. 
 
5.15. Frequency of Board Meeting: 
● Regular meeting cadence will be Annual and semiannual 
● Standard notice for regular meetings will be 7 days. 
● Standard notice for special meetings  will vary from 48 hours–7 days. 
Annual meetings and special meetings of the board shall be held upon prior n otice by email or 
Whatsapp communication.  
 
Annual Meetings 
Board meetings will be held at the beginning of the new year in the month of January or February. 
The date and time will be decided by the prior communication within the group. At the annual 
meeting of Directors, adequate and correct books and records of accounts including accounts of 
its properties and business transactions and accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, 
disbursements, gains and losses shall be presented. 
 
Semi-Annual Meeting 
Board members will meet once every 6 months to discuss the overall functioning and strategies 
for the growth and development of the organization. 
 
6 
ARTICLE SIX – OFFICERS  
 
Roster of Officers  
 
6.01. The Officers of this Corporation will consist of the following personnel: 
(1) President. 
(2) Vice President.  
(3) Secretary.  
(4) Treasurer.  
 
Selection of Officers  
 
6.02. Each of the Officers will be elected for a term of   two (2) year(s) by the Board of Directors. 
Each Officer will remain in office until a successor to such office has been selected and qualified. 
Such election will take place at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors taking place in the 
first calendar quarter of each year.  
 
Multiple Officeholders 
6.03. In any election of Officers, the Board of Directors may elect and appoint a single person to 
any two or more offices simultaneously, except that the offices of President and Secretary must 
be held by separate individuals. Officers may serve ex officio as Directors of this Corporation.  
 
President  
6.04. The President will be the Chief Executive Officer of this Corporation and will, subject to the 
control of the Board of Directors or Directorial Committees, supervise and control  the affairs of 
the Corporation. The President will perform all duties incident to such office, and such other duties 
as may be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of 
Directors. 
 
Vice President 
6.05. The Vice Pre sident shall perform all duties and exercise all powers of the President when 
the President is absent or otherwise unable to act. The Vice President will perform such other 
duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors. 
 
Secretary 
6.06. The Secretary shall (1) keep minutes of all meetings of Members and of the Board of 
Directors; (2) be the custodian of the corporate records; (3) give all notices as are required by law 
or by these Bylaws; and, generally, (4) perform all duties inci dent to the office of Secretary and 
such other duties as may be required by law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, 
or that may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors.  
 
Treasurer  
6.07. The Treasurer shall (1) have charge and custody of all corporate funds; (2) deposit the funds 
as required by the Board of Directors; (3) keep and maintain adequate and correct accounts of 
7 
the Corporation's properties and business transactions; (4) render reports and accountings to the 
Directors (and Members) as required by the Board of Directors or Members or by law; and (5) 
perform in general all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as may be 
required by law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, or that may be assigned from 
time to time by the Board of Directors, (6) responsible for managing yearly external financial audit. 
 
 Removal of Officers  
6.08. Any Officer elected or appointed to office may be removed by the persons authorized under 
these Bylaws to elect or appoint such Officers, whenever in their judgment the best interests of 
this Corporation will therefore be served. Such removal, however, shall be without prejudice to 
any contract rights of the Officer so removed. 
 
 
ARTICLE SEVEN- GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE CORPORATION 
 
7.1 WISE, Columbia Inc. is intended to be board -governed (the Board is the ultimate governing 
body, except where ownership and responsibility of managing the assets is required by the law). 
The corpor ation is owned by the membership, therefore membership has reserved powers to 
safeguard the purpose of the Corporation. It recognizes that all of its assets are held in trust for 
the founding members, which has a beneficial ownership in said assets to fulf ill the purpose of 
the Non-profit corporation. In the event that the membership makes an ecclesiastical decision that 
the Corporation has deviated from its purpose and/or the ecclesiastical pronouncements of the 
membership the real and personal property of the Corporation shall revert to the exclusive control 
of the membership until such time as the membership appoints a new Board of Directors of the 
Corporation. 
7.2 Governing policies 
For the strong and efficient operations the WISE, Board adopts and adheres to the key 
governance policies applicable to membership, board of directors, officers and members at all 
circumstances.  The policies are set forth below: 
7.2.1 Conflict of interest policy 
1. Purpose 
The purpose of this Conflict of Interest Policy is to protect the interests of WISE, Columbia, Inc. 
when it is contemplating entering into a transaction or arrangement that might benefit the private 
interest of an officer, director, or committee member. 
This policy is intended to supplement but not replace applicable state and federal laws 
governing conflicts of interest applicable to nonprofit organizations. 
 
2. Definition of Conflict of Interest 
8 
A conflict of interest may occur when a covered individual has a financial, personal, or 
business interest that could influence, or appear to influence, their judgment in matters 
involving the organization. 
Examples include: 
● Ownership or investment in a business that does business with the organization 
● Compensation or financial benefit from an entity working with the organization 
● Family or close personal relationships with individuals or businesses involved in 
organizational decisions 
 
3. Definitions 
Interested Person 
Any director, principal officer, committee member with governing board powers, or any person 
who has a direct or indirect financial interest. 
Financial Interest 
A person has a financial interest if they, directly or indirectly through business, investment, or 
family: 
● Have an ownership or investment interest in an entity with which the organization has a 
transaction or arrangement 
● Have a compensation arrangement with the organization or with an entity involved in a 
transaction 
● Have a potential ownership, compensation, or investment interest in any entity the 
organization is considering doing business with. 
A financial interest is not necessarily a conflict of interest, but it must be disclosed. 
 
4. Duty to Disclose 
In connection with any actual or possible conflict of interest, an interested person must disclose 
the existence and nature of the financial interest to the board or appropriate committee. 
 
5. Determining Whether a Conflict Exists 
After disclosure: 
1. The interested person leaves the meeting during discussion and voting. 
2. The remaining board members determine whether a conflict of interest exists. 
 
      6. Procedures for Addressing the Conflict 
If a conflict of interest is determined to exist: 
1. The interested person may present factual information but must leave before 
deliberation. 
2. The board or committee shall determine whether the organization can obtain a more 
advantageous transaction from a party that would not create a conflict. 
3. If no better option exists, the board may approve the transaction if it is fair, reasonable, 
and in the best interest of the organization. 
4. Approval requires a majority vote of disinterested directors. 
 
       7. Violations of the Policy 
9 
If the board or committee has reasonable cause to believe a member has failed to disclose an 
actual or possible conflict: 
1. The member will be informed and given an opportunity to explain. 
2. If the board determines a failure to disclose occurred, it may take appropriate 
disciplinary or corrective action. 
 
       8. Records of Proceedings 
The minutes of the board and committees shall contain: 
● The names of persons who disclosed a conflict 
● The nature of the financial interest 
● Any action taken to determine whether a conflict existed 
● The final decision and vote 
 
      9.Compensation 
A voting member of the board who receives compensation from the organization for services is 
precluded from voting on matters pertaining to their compensation. 
 
      10. Annual Statements 
Each director, officer, and key employee shall annually sign a statement affirming that they: 
1. Received a copy of the policy 
2. Have read and understand the policy 
3. Agree to comply with the policy 
4. Understand the organization is charitable and must operate in a way that maintains its 
tax-exempt status 
 
     11. Periodic Reviews 
To ensure the organization operates in a manner consistent with its charitable purposes and 
does not engage in activities that could jeopardize its tax-exempt status, the board shall conduct 
periodic reviews of compensation arrangements and partnerships. 
 
      12. Annual Acknowledgment 
All board members, officers, and key employees will annually acknowledge that they have read, 
understand, and agree to comply with this Conflict of Interest Policy. 
7.2.2 Compensation approval process 
1. Purpose 
The purpose of this Compensation Approval Process is to ensure that compensation for  directors, 
officers, or members of WISE, Columbia, Inc. is reasonable, transparent, and in the best 
interest of the organization . This process helps the organization maintain complianc e with 
nonprofit governance standards and expectations from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 
2. Scope 
This policy applies to compensation decisions for directors, officers, or members who receive 
compensation from the organization as an encouragement token for their bonafide services. 
10 
 
3. Compensation Review Committee 
The Board of Directors will designate a Compensation Committee or the full board (excluding 
any interested individuals) to review and approve compensation. Members of the committee must 
be independent and free from conflicts of interest. 
 
4. Review Criteria 
 
When determining compensation, the board or committee should consider: 
● Duties and responsibilities of the position 
● Qualifications and experience of the individual 
● Compensation levels at similar nonprofit organizations 
● The organization’s financial resources and budget 
● Performance and organizational impact 
 
Whenever possible, the board should review comparable salary data from similar 
organizations. 
 
5. Conflict of Interest 
Any board member or officer whose compensation is being considered must: 
● Disclose the conflict of interest 
● Leave the meeting during discussion and voting 
● Not participate in the decision 
 
6. Approval Process 
1. The Compensation Committee reviews the proposed compensation. 
2. The committee reviews relevant comparability data (salary surveys, similar nonprofit 
pay scales, etc.). 
3. The committee discusses and determines whether the compensation is reasonable and 
appropriate. 
4. The committee or board approves the compensation by majority vote of disinterested 
members. 
 
       7. Documentation 
The minutes of the meeting approving compensation must include: 
● The compensation amount and terms 
● The comparability data used in the review 
● Names of members present during the discussion 
● Documentation that the interested person was not present for the vote 
● The final board decision 
 
      8. Periodic Review 
Compensation arrangements should be reviewed periodically, typically once per year, to 
ensure continued fairness and alignment with the organization’s financial condition. 
11 
 
7.2.3 Whistleblower policy 
1. Purpose 
The purpose of this Whistleblower Policy is to encourage directors, officers, and volunteers of 
WISE, Columbia, Inc. to report in good faith any suspected illegal, unethical, or improper conduct 
related to the organization’s activities. The organization is committed to maintaining high 
standards of integrity and accountability. 
 
2. Reportable Concerns 
This policy applies to concerns about suspected misconduct including, but not limited to: 
● Fraud or financial mismanagement 
● Theft or misuse of organizational funds or property 
● Violations of laws or regulations 
● Conflicts of interest not properly disclosed 
● Harassment, discrimination, or other unethical behavior 
● Any activity that could damage the reputation or operations of the organization 
 
3. Reporting a Concern 
Individuals are encouraged to report concerns as soon as possible to one of the following: 
● Any member of the Board of Directors 
● Executive committee 
Reports may be made verbally or in writing and should include as much detail as possible about 
the suspected misconduct. 
 
4. Protection from Retaliation 
No director, officer, or member or volunteer who in good faith reports a concern shall suffer 
harassment, retaliation, or adverse consequences for making a report. Anyone who retaliates 
against a person who has reported a concern in good faith will be subject to disciplinary action. 
 
5. Confidentiality 
Reports of suspected misconduct will be handled as confidentially as possible. Information will 
only be shared with individuals who need to know in order to investigate and address the issue. 
 
6. Investigation 
All reported concerns will be reviewed promptly and fairly. The Board of Directors or a 
designated committee may investigate the report and take appropriate corrective action if 
misconduct is found. 
 
7. False Reports 
While the organization encourages good-faith reporting, knowingly making false accusations 
may result in disciplinary action. 
12 
7.2.4 Document retention and destruction policy 
1. Purpose 
The purpose of this Document Retention and Destruction Policy is to establish guidelines for the 
retention, storage, and disposal of organizational records of WISE, Columbia, Inc. Proper 
management of records helps ensure compliance with legal requirements and promotes good 
governance and accountability. 
 
2. Scope 
This policy applies to all documents and records created, received, or maintained by board 
members, officers, employees, and volunteers of the organization. Records may exist in paper 
or electronic form. 
 
3. Retention of Records 
The organization will maintain records for the period necessary to comply with legal, 
operational, and financial requirements. Examples include: 
Record Type Retention Period 
Articles of Incorporation & Bylaws Permanent 
Board Meeting Minutes Permanent 
Financial Statements & General Ledgers 7 years 
IRS Filings (Form 990 and related documents) Permanent 
Tax Records & Supporting Documents 7 years 
Contracts & Agreements 7 years after expiration 
Employee Records 7 years after termination 
Donor Records & Contribution Documentation 7 years 
 
4. Storage of Records 
Records should be stored in a secure location with reasonable safeguards to protect 
confidentiality, prevent unauthorized access, and reduce risk of loss or damage. Electronic 
records should be backed up regularly when possible. 
 
5. Document Destruction 
13 
When the retention period has expired, records may be destroyed in an appropriate manner 
such as shredding paper documents or permanently deleting electronic files. 
Destruction must be carried out in a way that protects confidential or sensitive information. 
 
6. Suspension of Destruction 
If the organization becomes aware of an investigation, audit, or legal action, destruction of 
relevant records must be suspended until the matter is resolved. 
 
7. Responsibility 
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing compliance with this policy and ensuring 
that records are retained and destroyed appropriately. 
 
 ARTICLE EIGHT – COMMITTEES 
 
 Definition of Directorial Committees  
 
8.01. This Corporation may appoint Committees, each of which shall consist of two or more 
Directors. Such Directorial Committees shall have and exercise the authority as presented by the 
Board of Directors. However, no such Committee shall have the authority of the Board to affect 
any of the following:  
(1) Submission to Members of any action for which the approval of Members is required under 
the law. 
 
(2) Filling of vacancies in the Board.  
 
(3) Adoption, amendment, or repeal of Bylaws.  
 
(4) Amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board. 
 
 (5) Action on matters committed by Bylaws or resolution of the Board to another Committee of 
the Board. 
 
 Appointment of Committees 
 8.02. The Board of Directors, by resolution duly adopted by a majority of the Directors in office, 
may designate and appoint one or more Directoral Committees and delegate to such Committees 
specific and prescribed authority of the Board of Directors to exercise in the management of this 
Corporation. The creation of such Directoral Committees, however, shall not operate to re lieve 
the Board of Directors, or any individual Director, of any responsibility imposed on such personnel 
otherwise by law. 
 
 Required Committees  
8.03. The following Standing Directorial Committee[s] shall operate as part of the corporate 
management, and with the following specific and prescribed authority of the Board to exercise in 
the management of this Corporation; provided that the particular Directors to serve from time to 
14 
time thereon shall be designated and appointed by the Board of Directors in a resolution that may 
otherwise add to (but not subtract from) the scope of such Committee's authority, if legally 
permissible: 
 (1) Executive Committee, which will act for the Board of Directors in the day -to-day 
management of this Corporation in the absence of action by the Board, where legally permissible. 
 
Functionary Committees  
8.04. In addition, the Board of Directors, by resolution may designate and appoint certain 
Functionary Committees designed to transact certain ministerial business of the Corpora tion, or 
to advise the Board of Directors. Such Committees shall be chaired by an Officer or Director as 
designated by the Board, who shall select the remaining members of the Committee up to the 
number set by the Board, or terminate such memberships, or a ppoint successors in that 
Chairperson's discretion. The Board may terminate any such Committee by resolution. 
 
 Standing Functionary Committees 
8.05. The Corporation shall have the following Standing Functionary Committees, each of which 
shall be chaired by a Director or Officer designated by the Board of Directors, and that may consist 
of any other corporation Members or personnel as appointed by that Chairperson: 
  
(1) Ways and Means Committee, consisting of at least two members plus a Chairperson, to 
determine the financial feasibility of corporate projects, acts, and undertakings referred to it by 
the Board of Directors, and to make recommendations (with appropriat e documentation) to the 
Board concerning such matters under consideration.  
 
ARTICLE NINE - INFORMAL ACTION  
 
Waiver of Notice  
9.01. Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the law, the Articles of 
Incorporation, or these Bylaws, a waiver of such notice in writing signed by the person or persons 
entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated in such waiver, shall be deemed 
equivalent to the giving of such notice. Such waiver must, in the case of a special meeting of  
Members, specify the nature of the business to be transacted.  
 
Action by Consent 
 9.02. Any action required by law or under the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, or any 
action that otherwise may be taken at a meeting of either the Members or Board of Directors, may 
be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by 
all persons entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter of such consent, or all Directors in 
office, and filed with the Secretary.  
 
ARTICLE TEN – OPERATIONS  
Fiscal Year  
10.01. The fiscal year of this corporation shall be the calendar year.  
 
15 
Execution of Documents  
10.02. Except as otherwise provided by law, checks, drafts, promissory notes, orders for the 
payment of money, and other evidence of indebtedness of this Corporation shall be signed by the 
Treasurer or President of the Executive Committee. Contracts, leases, or other instruments 
executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation shall be signed by the Treasurer or 
President of the Executive Committee and shall have attached copies of the resolutions of the 
Board of Directors (certified by the Secretary) authorizing such execution.  
 
Books and Records  
10.03. The Corporation shall keep correct and complete books and records of account, and 
minutes of the proceedings of its Members, Board of Directors, and Directorial Committees. The 
Corporation will keep at i ts principal place of business a membership register giving the names, 
addresses, and showing classes and other details of the membership of each, and the original or 
a copy of its Bylaws including amendments to date certified by the Secretary of the Corporation. 
 
Inspection of Books and Records  
10.04. All books and records of this Corporation may be inspected by any Member, or his or her 
agent or attorney, for any proper purpose at any reasonable time on written demand under oath 
stating such purpose.  
 
Nonprofit Operations—Compensation 
10.05. This Corporation shall not have or issue shares of stock. No dividend shall be paid, and no 
part of the income of this Corporation shall be distributed to its Members, Directors, or Officers. 
The Corporation may, however, pay compensation in a reasonable amount to Members, Officers, 
or Directors for services rendered. Compensation  may be paid only for bona fide services, and 
should be approved via a disinterested decision -making process consistent with a conflict -of-
interest policy. 
 
Loans to Management  
10.06. This Corporation shall make no loans to any of its Directors or Officers or to any of its key 
management or other personnel.  
 
Corporate Assets  
10.07. (1) No Member, board of directors, membership or Incorporator may have any vested right, 
interest, or privilege of, in, or to the Corporation's assets, functions, affairs, or franchises, or any 
right, interest, or privilege that may be transferable or inheritable, or that will continue if his or her 
membership ceases, or while he or she is not in good standing. 
 
(2) Expelled Members shall have no property rights to assets of the Corporation.  
 
(3) Upon dissolution, any Corporate assets remaining after the payment or discharge of all 
corporate liabilities; the return, transfer, or conveyances of assets held on conditions requiring the 
same; and the transfer or conveyance of assets received and held subject to limitations permitting 
their use only for charitable, religious, eleemosynary, benevolent, educational, or similar purposes 
16 
shall be distributed to an organization that will use the assets exclusively for exempt purposes 
such as charitable, religious, educational, and/or scientific purposes according to Section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.  
 
Indemnification  
10.08. The nonprofit shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless all directors and officers of the 
nonprofit against expenses (including attorney's fees, judgments, fines, and amounts paid in 
settlement) incurred in connection with any claims, causes of action, demands, damages, 
liabilities of the nonprofit, and any pending or threatened action, suit, or proceeding. Such 
indemnification shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Missouri, 
provided that such acts or omissi ons which gives rise to the cause of action or proceedings 
occurred while the director or officer was in performance of his or her duties for the nonprofit and 
was not as a result of his or her fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or a wrongful taki ng. 
The indemnification provided herein shall insure to the benefit of successors, assigns, heirs, 
executors, and the administrators of any such person. 
 
Disciplinary and Ethical Compliance 
10.09. All the members of the organization including membership, Board of Directors and Officers 
must perform their respective responsibilities. The members must be compliant and conversant 
with the philosophy of the corporation.They must uphold the rules, policies, resolutions and 
guidelines of the corporation. The memb ers must work at all times in the best interest of the 
organization with cooperation, integrity and right intention. 
 
 ARTICLE ELEVEN - AMENDMENTS  
 
Amendment of Articles of Incorporation 
  
11.01. The power to alter, amend, or repeal the Articles of Incorporation of this Corporation is 
vested in the Membership in consultation with the Board of Directors.  
 
Modification of Bylaws  
11.02. The power to alter, amend, or repeal these Bylaws, or to adop t new Bylaws, insofar as is 
allowed by law, is vested in the Membership in consultation with the Board of Directors.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 
ADOPTION OF BYLAWS  
We, the undersigned, are the directors or incorporators of this corporation, and we consent to, 
and hereby do, adopt the foregoing Bylaws as the Bylaws of this corporation.  
Adopted by the Board of Directors by resolution and vote of Five (5) to zero (0) on March 11, 
2026.  
 
 
 
 
 
DIRECTORS Approving: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name Signature 
1. Buddhimanta das   
2. Kartik Bhavsar  
3. Lal Gopal das  
4. Nadia Kishore das  
5. Niraj Arora  
Niraj Arora (Mar 16, 2026 13:56:57 CDT)
Kartik Bhavsar (Mar 16, 2026 14:29:46 CDT)
Buddhimanta Dasa (Mar 17, 2026 10:19:51 GMT+5.5)
Narayanabommireddipally (Mar 27, 2026 12:24:27 CDT)
Lalgopaldas (Mar 31, 2026 22:58:23 CDT)
_March 10, 2026_ WISE, Updated Bylaws (1)
Final Audit Report 2026-04-01
Created: 2026-03-16
By: Chisholm Law Firm, LLC (legaldepartment@chisholmfirm.com)
Status: Signed
Transaction ID: CBJCHBCAABAALXRu-H0EjVCy6MV7xN5TFbRSVjchpdgD
"_March 10, 2026_ WISE, Updated Bylaws (1)" History
Document created by Chisholm Law Firm, LLC (legaldepartment@chisholmfirm.com)
2026-03-16 - 6:55:17 PM GMT- IP address: 172.58.151.192
Document emailed to Niraj Arora (niraj.arora4@gmail.com) for signature
2026-03-16 - 6:55:23 PM GMT
Document emailed to kartik.bhavsar@gmail.com for signature
2026-03-16 - 6:55:24 PM GMT
Document emailed to buddhimanta.dasa@gmail.com for signature
2026-03-16 - 6:55:24 PM GMT
Document emailed to lalgopaldas@iskconstlouis.org for signature
2026-03-16 - 6:55:24 PM GMT
Document emailed to narayanabommireddipally@gmail.com for signature
2026-03-16 - 6:55:25 PM GMT
Email viewed by Niraj Arora (niraj.arora4@gmail.com)
2026-03-16 - 6:55:45 PM GMT- IP address: 66.249.88.1
Document e-signed by Niraj Arora (niraj.arora4@gmail.com)
Signature Date: 2026-03-16 - 6:56:57 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 172.59.171.101
Email viewed by kartik.bhavsar@gmail.com
2026-03-16 - 7:28:35 PM GMT- IP address: 74.125.212.228
Signer kartik.bhavsar@gmail.com entered name at signing as Kartik Bhavsar
2026-03-16 - 7:29:44 PM GMT- IP address: 181.215.195.214
Document e-signed by Kartik Bhavsar (kartik.bhavsar@gmail.com)
Signature Date: 2026-03-16 - 7:29:46 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 181.215.195.214

Email viewed by buddhimanta.dasa@gmail.com
2026-03-17 - 4:43:21 AM GMT- IP address: 66.249.84.225
Signer buddhimanta.dasa@gmail.com entered name at signing as Buddhimanta Dasa
2026-03-17 - 4:49:49 AM GMT- IP address: 122.161.49.121
Document e-signed by Buddhimanta Dasa (buddhimanta.dasa@gmail.com)
Signature Date: 2026-03-17 - 4:49:51 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 122.161.49.121
Email viewed by lalgopaldas@iskconstlouis.org
2026-03-24 - 7:02:48 PM GMT- IP address: 72.153.231.4
Email viewed by narayanabommireddipally@gmail.com
2026-03-27 - 5:18:07 PM GMT- IP address: 66.249.80.32
New document URL requested by narayanabommireddipally@gmail.com
2026-03-27 - 5:18:38 PM GMT- IP address: 172.56.20.13
New document URL requested by narayanabommireddipally@gmail.com
2026-03-27 - 5:21:14 PM GMT- IP address: 172.56.20.13
Signer narayanabommireddipally@gmail.com entered name at signing as Narayanabommireddipally
2026-03-27 - 5:24:25 PM GMT- IP address: 172.56.20.13
Document e-signed by Narayanabommireddipally (narayanabommireddipally@gmail.com)
Signature Date: 2026-03-27 - 5:24:27 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 172.56.20.13
Email viewed by lalgopaldas@iskconstlouis.org
2026-03-28 - 4:09:17 AM GMT- IP address: 172.225.18.69
Email viewed by lalgopaldas@iskconstlouis.org
2026-03-31 - 2:57:54 AM GMT- IP address: 172.226.81.22
Signer lalgopaldas@iskconstlouis.org entered name at signing as Lalgopaldas
2026-04-01 - 3:58:21 AM GMT- IP address: 76.182.206.188
Document e-signed by Lalgopaldas (lalgopaldas@iskconstlouis.org)
Signature Date: 2026-04-01 - 3:58:23 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 76.182.206.188
Agreement completed.
2026-04-01 - 3:58:23 AM GMT


